it takes people two seconds literally
less than two seconds when looking at
your Instagram bio to decide if in fact
they're going to follow you today we're
talking about the things you need to
know about your Instagram bio it's time
for you to update it this might be the
reason why you're not getting followers
alright let's get to it
hey my name is Charlene Johnson co-host
of build your tribe let's face it people
are greedier than ever when it comes to
a follow-up I mean I am I know you are
too we're all following way too many
people we don't want we don't want to
follow yet another person so unless
every single element
that people need to see even though it's
subconscious that people need to see in
order to decide if in fact you are worth
following yet another person it happened
so fast we don't have room to get it
wrong so today I'm going to walk you
through an Instagram bio makeover that
frankly will work whether you're on
Instagram Tick Tock Facebook or YouTube
all right let's start with Lisa Lisa
roach first thing I see is that I don't
even know who this is and so many of you
what you're going to need to do is find
a headshot now you can just take this
right now with your iPhone because you
don't even have to worry about the
quality of it you can put a filter on it
if you want but we need a clean headshot
just your mug
because I can't relate to Lisa when I
can't even see it looks like maybe she
has a mask on which means she probably
hasn't even updated those photos since
the pandemic she says that she's a mommy
to an Angel Baby Susie which explains
why she's used the social media handle
Lisa her name is Lisa and you want to
start by remembering the thing that's
never going to change is your name so
even if you have a really common name
like your name is let's say Lisa Smith
you could be the official Lisa Smith or
Lisa Smith is here or Elisa Smith like
something that includes your name and
you don't have to use your whole name
but you should definitely use part of
your name I can't tell you how many
times I've met individuals at events and
they'll walk up to me and they're like
we talk all the time chalene I am fit
mom 47 puppy lover
like I'll never remember that and I have
no connection with you we are connected
by our names it says something about us
your personal brand starts with your
personal name so change your handle on
all social media profiles try to pick
something that's available across all of
them and you might have to be creative
if you have a a very you know common
name but you'll find it I promise you so
the first thing we have to do with Lisa
is we've got to zoom in on our face we
need to see her face so I scrolled back
through her social media account and
found this image of Lisa I just cropped
it and then what I did is I put it into
canva in canva they've got which is a
free program you just put into canva and
you simply remove the background so that
gave her just the cropped shot of her
head then I place another color behind
her and just uploaded that as her new
profile picture on Instagram we picked
this bright chartreuse yellow because
that's like one of her favorite colors
and it's really a great color that just
pops off the page like you're you're
gonna see that color and instantly
identify oh that's that's Lisa right and
now we're seeing her face now I can
connect with her now there's something
about her eyes and like that flower in
her hair like you already know some
things about Lisa that we had no idea of
like maybe she posted another photo of
herself in the gym that like post gym
workout selfie because she thought she
looked like you know really fit that day
but we don't connect with people because
of their bodies we connect with people
because of their eyes because of their
face because of that relatability that
we're looking for and we see in people's
faces the next thing we did was changed
her username again your username is the
name you're going by on that social
media platform so I'm chalene Johnson
across all the platforms here on YouTube
I'm it's youtube.com forward slash
Celine Johnson it's a chalene Johnson
it's the chalene show it's chalene
Johnson on uh Twitter it's chalene
Johnson on Instagram it's
try to pick a name and then use that
username across all social media
platforms so that it's it's more
consistent when it comes to Instagram
the name area the name field on
Instagram only this is not true on Tick
Tock or on YouTube but on Instagram the
name field there's no reason for you to
put your name there again okay so it's
in this field that I want you to tell
people your brand like what is it that
you do
so at the time of my recording Lisa's
brand is she's someone who helps people
with makeup specifically women who are
super busy and have like five minutes or
less to put on their makeup so we're
gonna use that field because it is
search engine optimized on Instagram and
we're going to place whatever your brand
is whatever it is somebody might be
searching for that you help them with
put it in that field now below that
you'll see that Lisa has written a bunch
of things that a lot of you probably
have in your social media the things
that are like clever or funny or you
think are relatable but they're just
they're not helping anyone you know so
for example she says I'm a mommy to an
angel baby named Susie great great for
her but like you know
no offense who cares like that's not
helping anybody she says I'm unable to
quit because I am currently too legit
okay that's funny now I know she likes
MC Hammer now I probably also know how
old she is but it's also just not
helpful so you want to use this whole
Space to help people understand more
about your brand because we've got two
seconds to decide if we want to follow
you or not and the fact that you love
like MC Hammer like that was too hard
for me to figure out and that doesn't
help me I just need to know how do you
help me how does your brand help me so
we're going to change your Instagram bio
to tell people what type of content you
post so this isn't a resume and you
don't even have to say I help people to
do blah blah blah just tell people what
kind of content they can expect you if
they follow you what kind of content
will they see what is the promise what
is it you're going to be helping them
with what what problem is it that you
solve what type of Niche are you
specifically uh obsessed with at the
moment like this all relates to your
personal brand now that we've changed
your bio and her picture it's much more
identifiable we've also changed your
name now if somebody were to see a great
post from Lisa and click on her
Instagram account this is what they see
they've got like two seconds to look at
the content and go like what it's huh
what did she post about like what is her
brand because the content's all over the
place don't make the mistake of trying
to post content that's trendy or popular
or it's what everybody or it's just
going to get you likes post content
that's truly valuable to the person who
it is you're trying to help
like pick a niche and stick with it this
is your brand this is how you help
people and her content no offense is was
all over the place so what we did was
change upper content so as you can see
here the content delivers on the promise
of the bio
the bio says that she posts five minute
makeup tutorials for busy moms who got
no time for makeup and now if I glance
at the content on her page it's like oh
that matches up consistency is part of
your personal brand and it starts there
like you've got to start by building a
brand that's really identifiable that's
easy for people to understand so that
when the person who's looking for you
finds you they're like this is what I
was looking for now this is a great bio
makeover if that's something you're
struggling with I've got a great tool
for you there you probably know my son
Brock Johnson we do a business podcast
together but what you might not know is
that we also help people grow their
Instagram it's called insta Club Hub and
it's a membership it's amazing whether
you're trying to figure out like what to
post how to use like some of the new
features on Instagram should you use
hashtag should you not look and how to
spend less time on the app to attract
people to your purse personal brand to
your business we would love to help you
I am going to give you a link right now
that's going to give you 14 days access
to this incredible opportunity for just
seven dollars this is something you're
trying to figure out let me give you the
shortcut Instagram is a beast we study
this full-time I promise you'll be blown
away so give it a try seven dollars 14
days the link is below in our
description hey I love you I mean it and
I'll talk to you soon